INFORMATONS:

Historical information:

Buca Science High School was opened as Buca Middle School at 1930 by a Greek man named Demostanis Baltacı at a historical mansion that was built in 1868. It is said that this mansion is where Mustafa Kemal Atatürk stayed when he came to İzmir. By the years 1966-67, the school continued to give education under the name Buca High School and was divided as elemantary school and high school in 1989-90. Since 2008-2009, the school became a Science High School. A charitable couple named İnci and Özer Tırnaklı donated around 2.5 million turkish liras and replaced an old building at a schoolyard and built a science high school. At 2013-2014 the school moved to this new building at the schoolyard with other two schools at the same yard and it took a new name and become "Buca İnci Özer Tırnaklı Science High School and continuing to give education at that building since then.   

Physical information:

Our school is placed at Buca/İzmir near a huge 96.000 m² Hasanağa Garden. The school shares the big schoolyard with two other schools:Mehmet Akif Ersoy Social Sciences High School and Buca İmam Hatip for girls. The school also have another building at the yard that is used as a dorm and a dining hall. At the schoolyard there are volleyball,basketball courts and football field that are often shared with other two schools.  
Our school has 12 classrooms, 3 science laboratories,1 library,1 conference hall and a dining hall. There are around 350 students and 27 teachers.

Social Activities:

At spring time there are volleyball,football and basketball tournaments between classes to see which class wins each year. All classes gather and cheer for their teams.

Pi day is very important and traditional in our school and celebrated with joy every year at 14th of march. There are usually no classes that day and there are many competitions hold. There is a short film contest about pi day which whole school watches at the conference hall, counting pi digits, knowledge contest, designing a pi logo(the winner is chosen weeks before the pi day and the design of the winner gets printed on t-shirts and all of the students and teachers wear them at pi day). The winners are usually chosen by teachers and their prizes are given at the end of the day. There are also small and fun competitions at the schoolyard like musical chairs and gunnysack race. Our school principal cuts the huge cake with pi logo on it with the school chef who has made the cake and all of the students and teachers drink our lemonades and eat our cakes and dance to music and play games. Sometimes balloon football is brought and students can play it too.     


Achievements:

Buca İnci Özer Tırnaklı is the best or the second best school in İzmir in terms of students achievements at the university entrance exams. Besides that, our students are also successful at science olympics and also joined the competetions abroad. In 2013 Fahrican Koşar passed the first step of the Chemistry olimpyics exam. Enes Özdemir won an honorable mention at 60th international mathematic olympics that took place in England in 2019. Same year İrem Nur Çevikcan won a bronze medal at Mediterranean Youth Math Olympics that took place in Florence,Italy.


...
